update service graph doc: add service groups (#1600)
tigera/docs: calico-enterprise/visibility/visualize-traffic.mdx

description: Learn the power of network sets.
---

# Network Visualization

> > From the left navbar, select **Service Graph**, **Default**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Network visualization

> From the left navbar, select **Service Graph**, **Default**
```

Service Graph offers tools to visualize and investigate network communications in the cluster. To better understand how
Service Graph works, here is the list of core features and components.

> ## Service Graph Features and Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Service Graph features and components
```

**Namespaces**

Namespaces are the default view in Service Graph.

> When you expand the top right panel `<<`, you see a detailed view of the service-to-service communications for the namespace.

Reviewer 2: This requires to first click on a node or edge, is that right?

Author: @rene-dekker this is actually not accurate, we dont see details of service-to-service communications in the top tight panel by clicking on a namespace, we rather see details about inbound / outbound to other namespaces and list of services that belong to the namespace. So how about replacing this with:

```
When you click on a namespace to expand the top right panel `<<`, you see a detailed information about the to / from namespaces and services that belong to the selected namespace. For detailed information about service-to-service communications in the namespace, we can double click on the namespace node.
```

**Nodes and edges**

Lines going to/from nodes are called edges. When you click on a node or edge, the right panel shows details, and the associated flow logs are automatically filtered in the bottom panel.

![edges](/img/calico-enterprise/edges.png)

**Layers**

Layers allow you to create meaningful groupings of resources so you can easily hide and show them on the graph. For example, you can group resources for different platform infrastructure types in your cluster like networking, storage, and logging.

> Click the panel on the left (`>>`) by the Namespaces breadcrumb, and then expand the Tigera components layer.

![service-graph-layers](/img/calico-enterprise/service-graph-layers.png)

The **Tigera components** layer contains namespaces for {{prodname}} networking components, and is a view of interest to Dev/Ops.

> Click the vertical ellipses and select, **Hide layer**. Notice that only the business application namespaces remain visible in the graph.

> To make this layer less visible, select **Restore layer** and click **De-emphasize layer**.

**Service groups**

Service group is an abstraction mechanism for grouping services in a single node in the namespace view.

> Services that pass the traffic to the same destination are grouped within a service group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Services that pass traffic to the same destination are grouped within a service group.
```

> If services within the service group belong to different namespaces the name of the node in namespace view is printed as "\*",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If services within the service group belong to different namespaces, the name of the node in namespace view is "\*",
```

> otherwise the service group name is printed on the node which is a string combined of all uniques service names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
otherwise the node displays the service group name, which is a string that combines all the unique service names.
```
Tried to reword this, do I have the right idea?

If you double-click on the service group, you can see details of the services, endpoints, and the network communication
links (edges) between them. Be aware that services and the backing endpoints could belong to different namespaces.

Here is an examples showing how services and endpoints are grouped under service groups. Note that the example is created
with synthetic traffic data to showcase the service group feature and do not have any other value.

> ![a "*" node in namesapce view](/img/calico-enterprise/service-graph/servicegroups.gif)

Reviewer 2: This looks odd in the rendered page, the text is not visible.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f42d3c3d-35e7-4ffa-8f81-db68ecab110b)

I think that the sub text should be a full sentence starting with a capital.

Reviewer 2: https://deploy-preview-1600--calico-docs-preview-next.netlify.app/calico-enterprise/next/visibility/visualize-traffic

Reviewer: Agreed. I'm working on something (#1635) that should help with image captions. Something I've been meaning to do for a while.

Once I have this merged, you can wrap your caption like this: `<ImageCaption>This is what the image is about.</ImageCaption>`.

Author: looks like the title shown before the image link is just an internal title and not rendered at all. 
I updated the sentence below the image to be a complete sentence.
